on demand database anonymization.
So this was a very big pain for
developers and testers when I
entered the company a few years ago.
So I always observed this process and the
process was automatic in a way that the
database has have some scripts between
live database staging and development.
And the script itself, there was
no AI back then decided by itself.
When is the time to perform a
snapshot from the live database?
Just erase everything on staging
and development and then replace
with new data and everything.
So this was very painful
because sometimes.
People were just working on data, on
staging before committing to the live
database, especially non-technical
workers that were working through
the IMA admin interfaces on new data
and checking, testing, everything.
So sometimes work was lost.
At some point.
So it was not that great and
the process was very painful.
And a big problem was that they anonymized data with asterisks all over.
So like you would have on a database,
a lot of data with first name, last
name, IBAN, email, whatever the data,
sometimes you had a lot of asterisks on it.
And the pain point for that is that
sometimes the testers were testing like a
edit feature on a specific UI interface,
and they would submit their, the forms,
and the forms wouldn't go forward.
And the forms didn't show any
error on the screen because.
A hidden field in that chaon object had
unsupported symbols for a specific field
that was mapped in the object validation
in the front end or in the backend.
Maybe and because of those
characteristics that were inserted at
some point during the anonymization
of the database, things wouldn't
work in the test staging environment.
This was painful.
Like sometimes people would lose one hour,
like just trying to figure out what to do,
how to test properly a full workflow, a
more complex feature into the end-to-end
test or the final front end test.
Observing all this I proposed a
new solution for this process of
anonymization, which was taking
advantage of the file that we have
for backups in Google storage.
So
the process now is just almost,
okay, let, we have a button to
press that says, okay, we need a new
database for staging and dev because.
We need some new data.
We need things that are, structures
that are on live data, that it's
on the live database, that we
need it and it needed now to test.
So a process was built on top of that
with the far to provision, the actual
virtual machine that, that will act as
a database, which we chose not to have,
cloud SQL on staging because of costs.
So we have a vm, we have all the
setup to install my SQL in the same
version in that VM and setup as it
is to be in parallel, to be equal
to the live database that we have.
And then we load the credentials
first actually into this sql to all
the credentials that we have on the
staging environment remain the same.
So developers will not lose access
once we switch the database.
So we load the credentials, and then we
load the data from the live environment.
So up to this point this VM is very
isolated in terms of connectivity.
So there are firewall rules that.
Do not allow external connection to this
VM because now it's a little bit critical
because it has data that's from the live
environment and it has credentials that
it, that are from the staging environment.
So this VM is very
isolated for a few minutes.
And then we just run the process
of anonymization, which is a more
efficient masking process now, and
does not put asic or symbols that
wouldn't work on a specific field.
So every type of field is mapped to be a
valid field into our validation system,
and we create general information.
To every place where information is
sensitive, like emails, first name, last
name, IBAN things that can't be leaked
and are not public addresses everything.
So yeah, so we prepare this new VM
with the new database, and then we
have a post process on that actually.
Validates if all the data that
was correctly generalized or,
and anonymized in some cases.
After that, on, once the validation
is done, there is a automatic process
and there is a actual human being
that can enter into the system and
check a few points into the database.
Then we apply firewall rules,
so this VM can be accessible by
the developers and the testing.
And after that, we stopped
the old VM for a while.
We take that same IP that the VM
was using attached to the new vm.
People don't have to change, like where
they are pointing to the staging database.
And then we just reboot everything.
So systems start fresh and
connect to the new database.
The old VM is stopped now
and can be started again.
If someone needs to work on that
data to extract any information or.
To recover some work they were doing so
we can always do some backup recovery and
transfer that to the new database that
we are having now on stage environment.